you
this lecture is about overview of
statistical and models which cover
properly the topic models as special
cases in this lecture we're going to
give an overview of statistical amity
models these models are general models
that cover probabilistic topic models as
special cases so first what is the
statistical language model a statistical
language model is basically the
probability distribution over water
sequences so for example we might have a
distribution that keeps today is
Wednesday a probability of point or one
it might give it to their Wednesday is
which is a non grammatical sentence very
very small probability as shown here and
similarly another sentence the eigen
value is positive might get a property
at the 0.001 so as you can see such a
distribution clearing is context
dependent
it depends on the context of discussion
some water sequences might have high
probabilities than others but the same
sequence of words might have a different
probability in a different context and
so this suggests that such a
distribution camp to the characterized
topic such a model can also be regarded
as a probabilistic mechanism for
generating text and that just means we
can view text data as they are observed
from such a model for this reason we
also call such a model generating model
so now given a model we can then sample
sequences of words so for example based
on the distribution that I have shown
here on this slide we might let say
sample a sequence like a today's
Wednesday because it has a relatively
high property in a day we might often
get such a sequence we might also get
the eigen value is positive sometimes
with a smaller probability
and very very occasionally might get
today Wednesday is because it's the
problem in it is so small so in general
in order to characterize such a
distribution we must have specified
problem telling the values for all these
different sequences of words obviously
it's impossible to specify that because
it's impossible to enumerate all the
possible sequences of words so in
practice we will have to simplify the
model in some way so the simplest
language model is called a unigram
language model in such a case we simply
assume that the text is generated by
generating each word independently now
in general the words may not be
generated independently but after we
make this assumption we can
significantly simplify the language
model basically now the probability of a
sequence of words w sub 1 through W sub
n will be just a product of each the
probability of each word so for such a
model we have as many parameters as the
number of words in our vocabulary so if
here we assume we have n words so we
have n probabilities one for each word
and there's something 1 so now we can
assume our text is a sample drawn
according to this water distribution
that just means we're going to draw a
word each time and then eventually we'll
get a text so for example now again we
can try to sample words according to a
distribution we might get Wednesday
often or today often and some other
words like eigenvalue might have a small
probability etc now with this we
actually can also compute the
probability of every sequence even
though our model only specified in
probabilities of words this is because
of the independence of something
so specifically we can compute the
probability of today is Wednesday
because it's just a product of the
probability of today probability of is
and probably in there Wednesday for
example I show some fake numbers here
and we might then multiply these numbers
together to get the probability of
today's Wednesday so as you can see with
n probabilities one for each word we
actually can characterize the
probability distribution over all kinds
of sequences of words and so this is a
very simple model it ignore the word
order so it may not be effective for
some problems such as speech recognition
where you may care about the order of
words but it turns out to be quite
sufficient for many tasks that involve
topic analysis and that's also what we
are interested in here so when we have a
mod or we generally have two problems
that we can think about one is given a
model how like it will observe certain
kind of data points that is wearing just
in the sampling process the other is the
estimation process and that is to figure
out the parameters of a model given some
observed data and we're going to talk
about that in a moment let's first talk
about the same way so here I show those
two examples of water distributions or
unigram language models the first one
has higher probabilities for words like
a text mining association etc now this
signals a topic about text mining
because when we sample words from such a
distribution we tend to see words that
often occur in text mining context so in
this case if we ask the question about
what is the probability of generating a
particular document then we likely will
see text that looks like text mining
paper of course the text that we
generated by drawing word from the
distribution is unlikely coherent
although the probability of generating a
text mining paper publishing in that top
conference is nonzero assuming that no
world has a zero probability in the
distribution and that just means we can
essentially generate all kinds of text
documents including very meaningful text
documents now the second distribution
shown on the bottom has different words
with high probability so food nutrition
health intercept etc so this clearly
indicates a different topic and in this
case it's probably about health so if we
simple words from such a distribution
then the probability of observing a text
mining level would be very very small on
the other hand the probability of
observing a taxi that looks like a food
nutrition paper would be high and
relatively higher so this just means
given a particular distribution
different attacks we have different
probabilities now let's look at the
estimation problem now now in this case
we're going to assume that we have
observed the data we know exactly what
the text data looks like in this case
let's assume we have a text mining paper
in fact it's a abstract of the paper so
the total number of words is 100 and
I've shown some kinds of individual
words here now if we ask the question
what is the most likely lane with model
that has been used to generate this text
data assuming that the text area is
observed from some language model what's
our best guess of this language model
okay so the problem now is just to
estimate the probabilities of these
words as I've shown here so what do you
think what would be your guess would you
guess texture has a very very small
probability or relatively large
probability what about the query
well your guests probably will be
depending on how many times we have
observed this
in the text data right and if you think
about it for moment and if you like many
others you would have guessed that well
text has a probability of 10 out of 100
because I observe the text 10 times in
the text that has a total of 100 words
and similarly mining has 5 out of 100
and query has a relatively small
probability just observe the ones so
it's 1 out of 100 right so that
intuitively is a reasonable guess but
the question is is this our best gas or
best estimate of the parameters now of
course in order to answer this question
you have to define what do we mean by
best in this case it turns out that our
guesses are indeed the best in some
sense and this is called a maximum
likelihood estimate and it's the best in
that it would give our observe the data
the maximum probability meaning that if
you change the estimated somehow even
slightly then the probability of the
observed attacks later will be somewhat
smaller and this is called a maximum
microarrays me